PEP 692: Abandon the syntax change proposal (#2941)
python/peps: pep-0692.rst

means that each keyword argument in ``foo`` is itself a ``Movie`` dictionary
that has a ``name`` key with a string type value and a ``year`` key with an
integer type value. Therefore, in order to support specifying ``kwargs`` type
as a ``TypedDict`` without breaking current behaviour, a new construct has to
be introduced. 

> To support this use case we propose reusing ``Unpack`` which
> was initially introduced in :pep:`646`. There are several reasons for doing it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To support this use case, we propose reusing ``Unpack`` which
was initially introduced in :pep:`646`. There are several reasons for doing so:
```

Add missing comma (again) and fix grammar

means that each keyword argument in ``foo`` is itself a ``Movie`` dictionary
that has a ``name`` key with a string type value and a ``year`` key with an
integer type value. Therefore, in order to support specifying ``kwargs`` type
as a ``TypedDict`` without breaking current behaviour, a new construct has to
be introduced. 

To support this use case, we propose reusing ``Unpack`` which
was initially introduced in :pep:`646`. There are several reasons for doing so:

* Its name is quite suitable and intuitive for the ``**kwargs`` typing use case
  as our intention is to "unpack" the keywords arguments from the supplied
  ``TypedDict``.
* The current way of typing ``*args`` would be extended to ``**kwargs``
  and those are supposed to behave similarly.
* There would be no need to introduce any new special forms.
* The use of ``Unpack`` for the purposes described in this PEP does not
  interfere with the use cases described in :pep:`646`.

Specification
=============

> With ``Unpack`` we could introduce a new way of annotating ``**kwargs``.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With ``Unpack`` we introduce a new way of annotating ``**kwargs``.
```
Use more definitive language in the spec.

Specification
=============

> To support this use case we propose reusing ``Unpack`` which

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To support this use case, we propose reusing ``Unpack`` which
```

Add missing comma

> To support the aforementioned use case we propose to reuse ``Unpack`` which

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To support this use case, we propose reusing ``Unpack`` which
```

The above, plus missing comma

was initially introduced in :pep:`646`. There are several reasons for reusing
:pep:`646`'s ``Unpack``. Firstly, the name is quite suitable and intuitive for
the ``**kwargs`` typing use case as the keywords arguments are "unpacked" from
the ``TypedDict``. Moreover, the current behavior of typing ``*args`` would be
extended to ``**kwargs`` as well, which are supposed to behave similarly.
Secondly, there would be no need to introduce any new special forms. Lastly,
the use of ``Unpack`` for the purposes described in this PEP does not interfere

> with the use cases described in :pep:`646`.

Reviewer: Yeah, I strongly second all of Adam's editorial recommendations. This long paragraph is unambiguously rationale, as it is listing the "reasons" for a particular choice as opposed to the choice itself, and thus is best suited to the Rationale section. Moreover, readers, editors and reviewers are best served by keeping the normative Specification section as succinct and to the point as practical, especially if this is eventually migrated to a dedicated Typing Specifications page/site, as if the PEP is accepted, those implementing the specification are primarily interested in just the specification itself, rather than wading through the rationale for every decision.

I'd also suggest a bulleted (unordered) list, since it makes a relatively dense prose paragraph easier to navigate, and avoids the need for imposing a quasi-arbitrary numerical order, which make have to be rewritten later if items are added, removed or re-ordered.

> with the use cases described in :pep:`646`.

Author: Right, agreed, it makes more sense. I've moved the paragraph to the Rationale section and restructured it to a bullet point list.

Inside the function itself, the type checkers should treat

> the ``kwargs`` parameter as a ``TypedDict``::

Reviewer 3: Should type checkers only do this when TypedDicts are wrapped with `Unpack`? I would also say "annotation" consistently rather than "parameter".

Reviewer: It would seem that they are in fact referring to the type of the `kwargs` dict itself, rather than the type of its annotation object, though arguably that would be the collected argument values rather than the parameter name.

Author: I just went with `When using Unpack, the type checkers should treat kwargs inside the
function body as a TypedDict`, should be understandable. If I remember all the argument vs parameter definitions correctly, `parameter` here seemed ok - when doing static analysis this would be still a parameter (e.g. while reading the function's body as a human)

    foo(**kwargs)                               # OK!
    foo(name="The Meaning of Life", year=1983)  # OK!

> When using ``Unpack``, the type checkers should treat ``kwargs`` inside the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When ``Unpack`` is used, type checkers treat ``kwargs`` inside the
```

Function calls with standard dictionaries
-----------------------------------------

Passing a dictionary of type ``dict[str, object]`` as a ``**kwargs`` argument

> to a function that has them typed using ``Unpack`` must generate a type checker

Reviewer 3: "them" is unclear to me here, please could you reword?
```suggestion
to a function that has them typed using ``Unpack`` must generate a type checker
```

Reviewer: Yeah, I think they might mean this?

```suggestion
to a function that has ``**kwargs`` typed using ``Unpack`` must generate a type checker
```

Author: Reworded to `....that has ``**kwargs`` annotated with ``Unpack`` must generate...`

If the duplicate name is a positional-only parameter, no errors should be
generated. For example::

    def foo(name, **kwargs: Unpack[Movie]) -> None: ...     # WRONG! "name" will
                                                            # always bind to the
                                                            # first parameter.

    def foo(name, /, **kwargs: Unpack[Movie]) -> None: ...  # OK! "name" is a

>                                                             # positional parameter,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
                                                            # positional-only parameter,
```

Assignment
----------

> Assignments of a function typed with the ``**kwargs: Unpack[Movie]`` and

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Assignments of a function typed with ``**kwargs: Unpack[Movie]`` and
```

around by explicitly dereferencing desired fields and using them as arguments
to perform the function call::

    def bar(**kwargs: Unpack[Animal]):
        name = kwargs["name"]
        takes_name(name)

Using ``Unpack`` with types other than ``TypedDict``
----------------------------------------------------

As described in the :ref:`Rationale <pep-692-rationale>` section,
``TypedDict`` is the most natural candidate for typing ``**kwargs``.
Therefore, in the context of typing ``**kwargs``, using ``Unpack`` with types
other than ``TypedDict`` should not be allowed and type checkers should
generate errors in such cases.

Changes to ``Unpack``
---------------------

> It is worth pointing out that currently using ``Unpack`` in the context of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Currently using ``Unpack`` in the context of
```

typing is interchangeable with using the asterisk syntax::

    >>> Unpack[Movie]
    *<class '__main__.Movie'>

> Therefore, in order to be compatible with the new usecase, ``Unpack``'s

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Therefore, in order to be compatible with the new use case, ``Unpack``'s
```

`provides provisional support <pyrightProvisionalImplementation_>`__
for `this feature <pyrightIssue3002_>`__.

Rejected Ideas

> ==============

Reviewer 3: The grammar change could be added to the rejected ideas.

Reviewer: Yeah, that would be a good idea

Author: Agreed, added a new subsection.
